+++
date = "2017-09-25T07:00:41+05:30"
draft = true
title = "A Vacation To Remember"
tags = ["life"]
+++

On the flight back to Mumbai, as this vacation comes to an end - I realize how it has changed me in many small ways. Last couple of months had been quite a ride, my friends leaving their jobs looking for other opportunities, with me having second thoughts if I am enjoying what I am doing, lot of things going at home, and add to this my enthusiasm to push myself harder as always. I needed a vacation to think, what is next for me. What do I expect from myself? Am I pushing myself too hard? Who am I - an IIT Bombay Graduate, an AI Scientist at Qure.ai, or just a normal human being? I wanted a break.

The plan started with just a suggestion to my Korean friend - inviting her to India. I met her during my internship in Samsung Electronics HQ, Suwon in Summers of 2015. In that short span of time we had become quite a good friends. We shared a lot about ourselves, our history and our thinking. We had mutual respect for each other and did not judge the other person, respecting that he/she had his/her share of life experiences which made them as they are. She had some free time, and she was looking for vacation and the idea stuck with her. Soon in couple of weeks we were making plans where to go, visa and other arrangements. I was the chief planner, she was a bit scared to come alone and I assured her that I will be with her at all times during the trip.

The plan was made, we were all set. In last two years, we did not talk each day, or sometimes not for months. But we still remembered each other and cherished the moments we had. We used to catch up whenever we could. But there are some friends with whom even if you don't speak for a long time and then you go back, you will find them where you had left. Lot of things would have changed on both sides but you could still relate to each other at the most basic levels. That's how our friendship is. Maybe we understand each other's innate beliefs that do not change with time and thus we remain same each time we meet.

She arrived in Delhi on Sunday, 17th September. Her flight landed around 10.08PM and I was waiting for her till 11.00 when I got bored and started using my mobile and missed when she came out, she came from behind me and hit me and asked me to hug her. She was a bit scared when she did not see me, and I believe it is obvious when you go to a new country, you don't know a single thing about your bookings or any arrangements, you don't have an internet connection and you do not find your sole point of contact there. From there on, we booked a cab and started moving towards pick-up. As we moved we realised series of horns being blown and ears being picked up harshly. Driver cancelled the ride, booked another, driver asked us to walk 500m to location on the highway rather than he arriving at the pick-up, but after few attempts and over 30 mins lost, we finally got a cab. The first impression was disastrous.

As we moved in the cab, we catched up with each other, how things had turned out in last couple of years. I showed her some places as we passed by them. And the most beautiful part of the journey - conversations had begun. She was quite amazed to find people crossing highways without signals, cows on streets, and many such small things which were quite normal for me and I had overlooked them most of my life. We had booked two beds in a dorm in Zostel, an Hostel chain in India. We got in, reached room, and ordered the dinner - a veg biryani. Freshened up ourselves and went downstairs in the reception to chill out, talk and wait until dinner arrives. The food was quite mediocre, I was a bit disappointed with myself then as for her first meal in India I was unable to even satiate her taste buds with what real Indian spices and biryani tastes like. As the conversations rounded up for the night, we went back to sleep and plan for next day was to wake up and have a really good breakfast. I wanted to have some South Indian breakfast at Saravana Bhavan, since it was a long time I had been there. We left around 9.45 with same chaos on the roads, she was irritated by continuous honking and fascinated by cows on roads and women in sarees. We reached Saravana Bhavan, Connaught Place at around 10.15AM where another friend of mine as well came down. We three had some really good breakfast, she ate using her hands but instead of 3 fingers we normally use, she was using just 2 - a decent beginning. Next we moved to Dilli Haat at INA which was quite okayish nothing extraordinary. We did not realise then, that there was one at CP as well. With drenched in heat we were quite clueless what to do next. She was feeling the indian heat.

We thought to go to National Museum as the Air Conditioning would bring some relief to us. When we reached there, we realised it was closed on account of Monday. And most of other government places were closed as well when we checked. Only thing I was able to find was Tibetan House on Lodhi Road, which I thought she might be interested in because of her Buddhist ancestry. We went there, spent around an hour on books then moved to Jama Masjid, to reach there we had to walk around 2km to the Metro station and from there took a metro to Jama Masjid metro station. Area around Jama Masjid is quite unclean, smelly for someone who does not live there. We went there, she was given a robe to wear as she had worn an dress which was just inch or two less than her height and hence revealed her legs. Having very high rates for foreigners compared to Indians was the major part of our conversation that afternoon. Jama Masjid is a beautiful place and we had a great outing, with climbing hundreds of stairs to reach the top of Minaret and look at delhi, that view was refreshing and the silver lining in the so far dull day. From there we began our long walk to Chandni Chowk, through crowded streets and innumerable vehicles on a small street, we walked for almost an hour - exhausted before we reached Chandni Chowk. While going we had flavored milk on our way and on reaching we had Sweet Lime Soda - first time for her. Then we finally reached Parathe Waali Galli to have a delicious food and sat there for sometime, talking, discussing things amongst three of us.  Then my friend left and we both started our walk towards Red Fort, passing by Gurudwara, Hindu Temple, Church, Jain Temple while I enlightened her about Indian history, partition, pre-British era, etc.

We reached Red Fort only to realise it was closed because of Monday. And Red Fort corner in evening is super disastrous, too loud and infinite traffic. Booked a cab, and went back to Connaught Place to reach there in a hour. We went in a cafe, to realise cafe did not had most things they promised on board outside, still we had coffee, chilled out for a while. We had walked long distance today, listened to a guy pitching his startup on a nearby table and had my lessons on India going. We had a train to Agra next day early morning, that was our abode for the next day. So we reached Zostel back around 10, got freshened up, packed up things, had some discussions with other Zostel inmates, and slept off.

We woke up at 5, took the stuff and left for New Delhi Railway Station. I love train journeys. Chair Car journey was beautiful. We had our seats in different coaches, I had a talk with in-charge and got shifted to a seat behind hers. She had spent most of her traveling time in sleep. My grandfather and grandmother live in Agra. He had come to pick us up. Once we reached Agra, we went with them to their place, she saw Agra in that time. Number of cows went up but traffic was low, honking was almost negligible on the way. We took jalebi while on way and moved home, where we met my grandmother, she saw the home, took photos, and also went around to meet the neighbours. I haven't seen them yet. My grandmother asked if she is my girlfriend, I replied negative - just a really good friend. We had some talks, huge breakfast, she gave gifts to my grandparents that she had brought for them. We concluded that all grandparents across countries are same - they take a good care of you, serve you with huge amounts of food and ask you if you need anything every 10 mins. That time we spent there was beautiful. Next plan was to visit Taj Mahal, then Agra Fort, come back to home, have lunch, chill out a bit, go to market and then leave back to Delhi. We had bus that night from Delhi to Rishikesh.

We started our tour of Taj Mahal, where foreigners are charged Rs. 1000 while Indians are charged Rs. 40. Since it was still morning, the crowd was minimal. Journey to Taj Mahal and roaming inside is equivalent to a long walk. We spent nearly 3 hours there, took pics, discussed history of the place, the beauty of the structure, saw Yamuna river on the back, then talked about Visa regulations in Europe and US and the preference for STEM degrees compared to others like Communications or Arts. Why STEM gets such an amount of funding, is it really more important than other degrees. Importance of communication and language in our daily life.

## Learnings and Memories

- The idea of success
- Importance of living in another country
- Accepting other cultures
- Importance of communication and language learning
- Having self-confidence
- Being caring and thoughtful of others
- Being enthusiastic
- Marriage conditions
- Being self-aware and confident
- Soda in Agra
- Water Rappeling in Rishikesh
- The dark walk in Rishikesh
- Ganga aarti
